content/posts/wireguard_vpn.md, before:

---
title: "Wireguard vpn"
date: 2021-05-05T16:56:58-05:00
categories:
- homelab
tags:
- wireguard
- vpn
- networks
series:
- idk
draft: false
---
[//]: # ( {{< series "idk" >}} )

# Setup

## Create keys
Run the following commands for every peer
```bash
wg genkey | tee privatekey | wg pubkey > publickey
```
Then set perms so that only the user that created them can read/write them
```bash
sudo chmod 600 *key
```

## Allow ip forwarding on VPN server
```bash
sudo sysctl -w net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
```
**(untested) Note:** To make the change permanent, add `net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1` to /etc/sysctl.d/99-sysctl.conf.


## Create config files for interface using these keys

**1) Create the following files on each machine**
```bash
sudoedit /etc/wireguard/wg0.conf
```

<details>
  <summary>VPN Client's wg0.conf</summary>
<p>
  
```
[Interface]
# The IP address that this client will have on the WireGuard network.
# Note the /32 means this client can only have one address within the tunnel
# Whereas the server has a /24 since it can use any 
Address = 10.101.0.2/32

# The private key you generated for the client previously.
PrivateKey = :)


[Peer]
# VPN Server's public key.
PublicKey = public !

# The WireGuard server to connect to.
# Note: this address must be reachable on the client's network
Endpoint = 192.168.0.20:51821

# The subnets this WireGuard VPN is in control of.
# Implication ==> this client's (client who has this file) ping's to these subnets will go through this peer's endpoint instead of another gateway
# Implication ==> This client   (meaning ^) can access these subnet's if this wireguard vpn server can access them !
AllowedIPs = 10.101.0.0/24, 10.0.50.0/24

# Ensures that your home router does not kill the tunnel, by sending a ping
# every 25 seconds.
PersistentKeepalive = 25
```

</p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>VPN Server's wg0.conf </summary>
<p>
  
```
[Interface]
# Configuration for the server
# Set the IP subnet that will be used for the WireGuard network.
Address = 10.101.0.1/24

# The port that will be used to listen to connections. 51820 is the default.
ListenPort = 51821

# The output of `wg genkey` for the server.
PrivateKey = :)


# FROM: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/WireGuard#Server
# Apperently (from ^^) if the server is behind a router and receives traffic via NAT, these iptables rules are not needed
PostUp = iptables -A FORWARD -i %i -j ACCEPT; iptables -A FORWARD -o %i -j ACCEPT; iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o CHANGE_ME:eth0.50 -j MASQUERADE
PostDown = iptables -D FORWARD -i %i -j ACCEPT; iptables -D FORWARD -o %i -j ACCEPT; iptable s -t nat -D POSTROUTING -o CHANGE_ME:eth0.50 -j MASQUERADE



[Peer]

# Connecting client's public key
PublicKey = public !

# The IP address that this peer has WITHIN the tunnel
AllowedIPs = 10.101.0.2/32

# Ensures that your home router does not kill the tunnel, by sending a ping every 25 seconds.
PersistentKeepalive = 25
```

</p>
</details>

**2) `wg-quick up wg0` on both machines and you're done**

# Q/A
[//]: # ( **Q: I'm confused, I keep hearing the terms clients and servers and peers interchanged but WHO IS WHO ARENT THEY ALL PEERS??** )
### Q: I'm confused, I keep hearing the terms clients and servers and peers interchanged but WHO IS WHO ARENT THEY ALL PEERS??
- **A:** Yes they are all peers but we can mimic a client-server model using wireguard which is what is shown here :)

### Q: What would I use this dang thing for anyways
- **A:** For example, people who want remote access to some computer in their house might have:
1) A machine with the servers config file on their private (no open ports) home network **(tweaked so this server also has the clients endpoint in its config file)**
2) And a publicly acessible Amazon EC2 instance with the client configuration.
- As long as PersistentKeepalive is set and a connection is established by the "server" to the EC2 "client" (established by ping or any communication then PersistentKeepalive makes the connection stay active) then we can connect to the publicly innaccessable "server" by connecting to the public EC2 "client" :)

### Q: Where can I find further resources for wireguard or VPN's in general
- **A:** [The arch wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/WireGuard#Specific_use-case:_VPN_server) is always a great resource, [the talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=88GyLoZbDNw&t=523s) that Jason Donenfeld gave to introduce wireguard provides an interesting not-overly-technical analysis of wireguard. Lastly, the [wireguard website](https://www.wireguard.com/#conceptual-overview) has lots of information for those who wish to deep dive into the inner workings of wireguard.

Commit message:

change wireguard article a bunch, added a preamble section explaining vpns

content/posts/wireguard_vpn.md, after:

---
title: "Wireguard vpn setup guide"
date: 2021-05-05T16:56:58-05:00
categories:
- homelab
tags:
- wireguard
- vpn
- networks
series:
- idk
draft: false
---
[//]: # ( {{< series "idk" >}} )

# Background Info

## VPN's in my words

The purpose of a VPN server at its heart is to give remote clients a private ip address on some private IP subnet that they cannot access. \
Basically the VPN server can access some subnetworks that you can't access but want to access. \
To do this the VPN gives you an IP address on your desired subnet which effectively makes you a client on that network with access to most or all (depending on firewall/ACL rules of the default gateway for the subnet) machines on that network. \
This is accomplished by your local machine sending all traffic destined for the previously inaccessible subnet through the VPN server, which in turn forwards your requests to the appropriate client on the desired subnet!


[//]: # ( # Purpose )

[//]: # ( This article explains how use wireguard to setup a traditional VPN server where the client wants to be a client on some remote network that is accessible through the VPN server. )
[//]: # ( In other words, the server has access to a subnetwork that the client would like to be apart of. )
[//]: # ( For example: )
[//]: # ( It is 2021 and you are working remotely, for dev purposes, you need to ssh into a machine located in your employers office but your employer doesn't have ssh ports )

## Why wireguard?
Number 1 reason is hands down for street cred, people will fear and respect you for using wireguard as long as you constantly announce that you use it (emphasis on constantly).
Besides possibly leading to your crush finally acknowledging your existence, wireguard is just amazing: fast to setup, to manage and to ping.

# Setup steps

## Create keys
Run the following commands for every peer
```bash
wg genkey | tee privatekey | wg pubkey > publickey
```
Then set perms so that only the user that created them can read/write them
```bash
sudo chmod 600 *key
```

## Allow ip forwarding on VPN server
```bash
sudo sysctl -w net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
```
**(untested) Note:** To make the change permanent, add `net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1` to /etc/sysctl.d/99-sysctl.conf.


## Create config files

**1) Create the following files on each machine**
```bash
sudoedit /etc/wireguard/wg0.conf
```

<details>
  <summary>VPN Client's wg0.conf</summary>
<p>
  
```
[Interface]
# The IP address that this client will have on the WireGuard network.
# Note the /32 means this client can only have one address within the tunnel
# Whereas the server has a /24 since it can use any 
Address = 10.101.0.2/32

# The private key you generated for the client previously.
PrivateKey = :)


[Peer]
# VPN Server's public key.
PublicKey = public !

# The WireGuard server to connect to.
# Note: this address must be reachable on the client's network
Endpoint = 192.168.0.20:51821

# The subnets this WireGuard VPN is in control of.
# Implication ==> this client's (client who has this file) ping's to these subnets will go through this peer's endpoint instead of another gateway
# Implication ==> This client   (meaning ^) can access these subnet's if this wireguard vpn server can access them !
AllowedIPs = 10.101.0.0/24, 10.0.50.0/24

# Ensures that your home router does not kill the tunnel, by sending a ping
# every 25 seconds.
PersistentKeepalive = 25
```

</p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>VPN Server's wg0.conf </summary>
<p>
  
```
[Interface]
# Configuration for the server
# Set the IP subnet that will be used for the WireGuard network.
Address = 10.101.0.1/24

# The port that will be used to listen to connections. 51820 is the default.
ListenPort = 51821

# The output of `wg genkey` for the server.
PrivateKey = :)


# FROM: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/WireGuard#Server
# Apperently (from ^^) if the server is behind a router and receives traffic via NAT, these iptables rules are not needed
PostUp = iptables -A FORWARD -i %i -j ACCEPT; iptables -A FORWARD -o %i -j ACCEPT; iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o CHANGE_ME:eth0.50 -j MASQUERADE
PostDown = iptables -D FORWARD -i %i -j ACCEPT; iptables -D FORWARD -o %i -j ACCEPT; iptable s -t nat -D POSTROUTING -o CHANGE_ME:eth0.50 -j MASQUERADE



[Peer]

# Connecting client's public key
PublicKey = public !

# The IP address that this peer has WITHIN the tunnel
AllowedIPs = 10.101.0.2/32

# Ensures that your home router does not kill the tunnel, by sending a ping every 25 seconds.
PersistentKeepalive = 25
```

</p>
</details>

**2) `wg-quick up wg0` on both machines and you're done**

# Q/A
[//]: # ( **Q: I'm confused, I keep hearing the terms clients and servers and peers interchanged but WHO IS WHO? ARENT THEY ALL PEERS??** )
### Q: I'm confused, I keep hearing the terms clients and servers and peers interchanged but WHO IS WHO ARENT THEY ALL PEERS??
- **A:** Yes they are all peers but we can mimic a client-server model using wireguard which is what is shown here :)

### Q: What would I use this dang thing for anyways
- **A:** For example, people who want remote access to some computer in their house might have:
1) A machine with the servers config file on their private (no open ports) home network **(tweaked so this server also has the clients endpoint in its config file)**
2) A publicly acessible Amazon EC2 instance with the client configuration.
- As long as PersistentKeepalive is set and a connection is established by the "server" to the EC2 "client" (established by ping or any communication then PersistentKeepalive makes the connection stay active) then we can connect to the publicly innaccessable "server" by connecting to the public EC2 "client" :)

### Q: Where can I find further resources for wireguard or VPN's in general
- **A:** [The arch wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/WireGuard#Specific_use-case:_VPN_server) is always a great resource, [the talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=88GyLoZbDNw&t=523s) that Jason Donenfeld gave to introduce wireguard provides an interesting not-overly-technical analysis of wireguard. Lastly, the [wireguard website](https://www.wireguard.com/#conceptual-overview) has lots of information for those who wish to deep dive into the inner workings of wireguard.
